USHA MITTAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai
Frequently Asked Questions for admission 2021-2022
General Queries
1. What is the DTE Code of Usha Mittal Institute of Technology (UMIT)?
DTE Code is 3035.
2. UMIT belongs to which University?
UMIT is managed by SNDT Women’s University.
3. Where is the college located?
UMIT is located in Santacruz (West), Mumbai, Maharashtra.
4. What are the eligibility requirements for B.Tech. admission? How to
register and from where do I get the application?
Refer to the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) website
www.mahacet.org and UMIT website http://umit.ac.in regularly.
5. What is CAP round?
CAP stands for Centralized Admission Process. It is conducted by the
Directorate of Technical Education or Government of Maharashtra. Allotment of
seats through CAP are not done by the institute. Seats are allotted through an
online portal of DTE.
6. Are there any schemes belonging to students of minority communities?
UMIT is a non-minority institution.
Hence there are no separate schemes for minority communities.
USHA MITTAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai
7. Why should I take admission at UMIT?
● Only autonomous engineering college in SNDT Women’s University.
● Higher probability of placements
● Helping students to build overall personality by providing opportunity in
the area of sports, cultural activities.
● The teachers are very well qualified and dedicated.
8. Are there any seats at institution level round?
Yes, Refer to the http://umit.ac.in website frequently.
9. Can I take help from agents for application?
NO, Beware of agents for taking admission. We do not have an agent. Refer to
the UMIT website regularly.
10. Which degree is provided by the institute?
B.Tech.
11. Is there any Reservation in seats allotment ?
Reservation in seats is applicable as per the Government Rules for CAP rounds
conducted by DTE. However, there is no reservation in institute quota seats,
which are open for all and filled strictly by merit basis only.
12. Is there a separate category for children of Defense personnel?
Reservation is only available in CAP rounds as per DTE rules.
13. Is there any NRI quota and may I get a seat at UMIT?
No
14. Is there any management quota apart from mentioned in DTE rules?
NO
15. Is the candidate’s presence compulsory while taking admission?
Yes
USHA MITTAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai
16. Is it mandatory to submit all required documents in original?
Yes. Your admission is confirmed only when you pay the fees as applicable and
submit all the required documents in original. If you don’t have all the originals
while taking admission then you will be given some time to submit those
documents.
17. What are the certificates to be attached with the application form?
1. FC acknowledgement letter
2. CAP allotment letter
3. Seat Acceptance Letter
4. MH-CET/JEE score card
5. S.S.C. Marksheet
6. H.S.C. Marksheet
7. Jr.College Leaving Certificate
8. GAP certificate (if any) on Rs. 100 stamp paper
9. Migration certificate (for CBSE/ICSE/OMS/J &K students)
10.Domicile certificate
11. Age and Nationality certificate
12.Birth certificate
13.Aadhar card photocopy-2
14.Ration Card photocopy-2 (Front and last page only)
15.Two passport size photos
16.Caste certificate (If applicable)
17.Caste Validity Certificate (If applicable)
18.Non Creamy Layer Certificate (for OBC/SBC/VJ/NT)
19.Income Certificate issued by competent authority of Government of
Maharashtra and not by department of income tax or Form No.16.
20.EWS certificate-Issued by competent authority of Government of
Maharashtra in a specified format.
USHA MITTAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai
18. What are the cut-off merit scores for different courses at the institute?
Please visit the UMIT website for further details.
19. Is it possible to change the branch in the second year?
Technically Yes. There should be a vacancy at that point of time. Allotment will
be on a first year merit list basis. It is not recommended to take admission in a
particular branch on the futuristic assumptions of change in branch.
20. I got very few marks and I'm not sure whether I will get admission at
UMIT?
Do not make assumptions based on prior cut-offs. You should apply and keep
patience till the last cutoff date declared by DTE. Sometimes seat may get
vacant at the last moment and you may get a chance to fill that seat. So do not
lose hope.
21. I have not applied at UMIT and the admission process is over. Now will I
get a seat at UMIT?
No. Once the admission process is over then there is no further scope for
admissions. However you should always see notifications by DTE.
22. When notification for Institute Quota admissions will come.
Please visit the UMIT website for further details.
23. To whom should we contact for information related to vacant seats,
document submissions, dates & deadlines, fees payment etc.
Refer website www.umit.ac.in frequently.
USHA MITTAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai
Payment of Fees
24. What are the fees of the B.Tech program at UMIT?
Please visit the UMIT website for further details.
25. Am I eligible for any kind of scholarship or concession in fees?
Yes. You are entitled for scholarship / concession fees depending upon the
category / caste of the candidate and subject to the condition that you should
have been admitted through CAP rounds only.
24. Can I get an Educational loan?
Yes, several Banks offer Education Loans for payment of fees. Please contact
Banks for more details in this regards
25. Which is the nearest bank to campus?
Canara Bank is located in the campus.There are many banks located near the
campus.
USHA MITTAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai
Hostel and other facilities
26. Is hostel accommodation provided at UMIT?
Yes, Hostel allotment is strictly done on merit basis only due to limited
availability of seats.
27. Are there any accommodation facilities nearby college?
Yes. There are few private apartments and guest houses. You need to find
accommodation on your own. However, if any help is required, the institute will
try to help you.
28. Do you have internet facilities at the college?
Yes we do have an internet facility. Entire institute is WiFi enabled. Also the
internet is available on all computers in the institute.
29. Do you have transport facilities?
The college is located 1.5 Km from Santacruz Station from where you can
easily get buses and shared auto/taxi.
30. How is the library facility?
Yes. Please visit the UMIT website for further details.
USHA MITTAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai
Placements
31. What is the average campus placement?
UMIT has always been in the preferred list of industries for campus placement
and on an average 80% students are placed every year.
32. Which are the companies that come here for recruitment?
Accenture, Barclays, Colgate, Capgemini, Infosys, Microsoft, Deloitte, Oracle,
Qunnox, Northgate, Nibble Technology, Xoriant, Persistent, Target, Ericsson,
Mu Sigma.
33. What is the difference in placement policy between various branches?
Placement policy is the same for all branches. In most of the companies students
from all branches are eligible to apply; except few depending on the job profile.
USHA MITTAL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
SNDT Women’s University, Mumbai
Academics
34. What are college timings?
Administrative offices remain open from 9.00 am to 5.00 pm. But classes start at
8.30 am.
35. Does the college follow a Semester or Annual system?
Semester pattern.
36. What is the medium of instruction in class?
English.
37. How are the teachers at UMIT?
The teachers are very well qualified and dedicated. Many of them are Ph.D. or
doing their Ph.D. All teachers are very helpful and proactive.
38. What are the different courses offered at UMIT?
B.Tech in five courses namely, Computer Science & Technology, Information
Technology, Electronics & Communication, Computer Engineering and Data
Science. M.Tech Programs are offered in Computer Science & Technology and
Electronics & Communication.
39. Are there any elective subjects offered during the programme?
Yes.
40. How is the sports culture and extracurricular activities?
We believe in the overall development of students. Apart from academics
students are motivated to participate in extracurricular activities.